README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/sixhours-team/memcached-spring-boot/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sixhours-team/memcached-spring-boot/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot)
[![Join the chat at gitter.im/six-hours/memcached-spring-boot](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/six-hours/memcached-spring-boot?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

# Memcached Spring Boot

Library that provides support for auto-configuration of Memcached cache in a Spring Boot application.

It provides implementation for the [Spring Cache Abstraction](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.2.3.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/integration.html#cache), backed by the [Xmemcached](https://github.com/killme2008/xmemcached).
Supports cache eviction per key, as well as clearing out of the entire cache region. Binaries are available from **Maven Central**.

## Usage

To plug-in Memcached cache in your application follow the steps below:

1. Include library as a Gradle or Maven compile dependency:
   * **Gradle**

      ```groovy
      implementation('io.sixhours:memcached-spring-boot-starter:2.4.4')
      ```
   * **Maven**

      ```xml
      <dependency>
          <groupId>io.sixhours</groupId>
          <artifactId>memcached-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
          <version>2.4.4</version>
      </dependency>
      ```
  
    As the default implementation is backed by [Xmemcached](https://github.com/killme2008/xmemcached) if there is a requirement to use [Spymemcached](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-elasticache-cluster-client-memcached-for-java) (i.e. its forked AWS version) following configuation should be applied:
  
   * **Gradle**

        ```groovy
        implementation('io.sixhours:memcached-spring-boot-starter:2.4.4') {
          exclude group: 'com.googlecode.xmemcached', module: 'xmemcached'
        }
        implementation('com.amazonaws:elasticache-java-cluster-client:1.1.2')
        ```
   * **Maven**

        ```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.sixhours</groupId>
            <artifactId>memcached-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
            <version>2.4.4</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>com.googlecode.xmemcached</groupId>
                    <artifactId>xmemcached</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.amazonaws</groupId>
            <artifactId>elasticache-java-cluster-client</artifactId>
            <version>1.1.2</version>
        </dependency>
        ```

  * Snapshot repository

    If you want to use `SNAPSHOT` versions, add the snapshot-repo `https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots` as shown in the [example](https://github.com/sixhours-team/spring-boot-memcached-demo-java/blob/master/build.gradle#L16).

2. Configure `Memcached` key-value store in your properties file (`application.yml`).

    **Example**

    To manually connect to one or more cache servers (nodes), specify comma-separated list of hostname:port with the `static` provider:

    ```yaml
     memcached.cache:
       servers: example1.com:11211,example2.com:11211
       provider: static
       # default expiration is '1d' ('86400' seconds) and custom ones for cache_name1 and cache_name2
       expiration: 1d
       expiration-per-cache:
         cache_name1: 1h
         cache_name2: 30h
       metrics-cache-names: cache_name1, cache_name2
     ```

    To connect to a cluster with AWS [Auto Discovery](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/UserGuide/AutoDiscovery.html), specify
    cluster configuration endpoint in `memcached.cache.servers` property with the `aws` provider:

    ```yaml
    memcached.cache:
        servers: mycluster.example.com:11211
        provider: aws
        expiration: 86400 # default expiration set to '86400' seconds i.e. 1 day
    ```

    To connect to a cluster within Google App Engine memcached service, it is sufficient to specify
    the configuration property for provider with value `appengine`:

    ```yaml
    memcached.cache:
        provider: appengine
        expiration: 86400 # default expiration set to '86400' seconds i.e. 1 day
    ```

3. Enable caching support by adding `@EnableCaching` annotation to one of your `@Configuration` classes.

    ```java
    import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
    import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
    import org.springframework.cache.annotation.EnableCaching;

    @SpringBootApplication
    @EnableCaching
    public class Application {

    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args);
    	}
    }
    ```

    Now you can add caching to an operation of your service:

    ```java
    import org.springframework.cache.annotation.Cacheable;
    import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

    @Component
    public class BookService {

        @Cacheable("books")
        public Book findByTitle(String title) {
            // ...
        }

    }
    ```

For further details on using the Memcached cache in a Spring Boot application please look at the [demo](https://github.com/sixhours-team/spring-boot-memcached-demo-java) project.

## Properties

Properties can be set in your `application.yml` file or as a command line properties. Below is the
full list of supported properties:

```yaml
# MEMCACHED CACHE
memcached.cache.servers: # Comma-separated list of hostname:port for memcached servers (default "localhost:11211")
memcached.cache.provider: # Memcached server provider (use one of following: "static", "aws" or "appengine"). Default provider is "static". Use "aws" for AWS node auto discovery, or "appengine" if running on Google Cloud Platform.
memcached.cache.expiration: # Default cache expiration if not configured per cache (default "0", meaning that cache will never expire). If unit not specified, seconds will be used.
memcached.cache.expiration-per-cache.cacheName: # To set expiration value for cache named "cacheName" {cache_name}:{number} e.g. "authors: 3600" or "authors: 1h". If unit not specified, seconds will be used.
memcached.cache.prefix: # Cache key prefix (default "memcached:spring-boot")
memcached.cache.protocol: # Memcached client protocol. Supports "text" and "binary" protocols (default is "text" protocol)
memcached.cache.operation-timeout: # Memcached client operation timeout (default "2500 milliseconds"). If unit not specified, milliseconds will be used.
memcached.cache.hash-strategy: # Memcached client hash strategy for distribution of data between servers. Supports "standard" (array based : "hash(key) mod server_count"), "libmemcached" (consistent hash), "ketama" (consistent hash), "php" (make easier to share data with PHP based clients), "election", "roundrobin", "random". Default is "standard".
memcached.cache.servers-refresh-interval: # Interval in milliseconds that refreshes the list of cache node hostnames and IP addresses for AWS ElastiCache. The default is 60000 milliseconds.
memcached.cache.metrics-cache-names: # Comma-separated list of cache names for which metrics will be collected.
memcached.cache.disabled-cache-names: # Comma-separated list of cache names for which caching will be disabled. The main purpose of this property is to disable caching for debugging purposes.    
```

All of the values have sensible defaults and are bound to [MemcachedCacheProperties](https://github.com/sixhours-team/memcached-spring-boot/blob/master/memcached-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/io/sixhours/memcached/cache/MemcachedCacheProperties.java) class.

Duration properties such as `expiration` and `expiration-per-cache` by default are using unit of seconds if no unit is specified. For `operation-timeout` property unit of milliseconds is the default one.

E.g. to specify an `expiration` of 30 seconds, `30`, `PT30S` (ISO-8601 format) and `30s` are all equivalent. An `operation-timeout` of 500ms can be specified in any of the following form: `500`, `PT0.5S` and `500ms`.

Supported units are:

* `ns` for nanoseconds

* `us` for microseconds

* `ms` for milliseconds

* `s` for seconds

* `m` for minutes

* `h` for hours

* `d` for days

**Notice:**
>If different applications are sharing the same Memcached server, make sure to specify unique cache `prefix` for each application
in order to avoid cache conflicts.

## Build

In order to build the project you will have to have [Java 1.8+](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-docker) installed.
To build the project invoke the following command:

    ./gradlew clean build

To install the modules in the local Maven repository:

    ./gradlew clean build publishToMavenLocal

## License

Memcached Spring Boot is an Open Source software released under the [Apache 2.0 license](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

Commit message:

Add support for using expirations of more than 30 days
In Memcached the expiration times are specified in seconds
as unsigned integer value. The expiration can take following
values:

1) `0` - never expire
2) `Up to 30 days` i.e. 60x60x24x30 = 2.592.000 seconds
3) Any value `greater than 30 days` is intepreted as Unix timestamp e.g.
can be used to expire cache on specific date.

In order to support expiration values of more than 30 days, the
check is performed when obtaining configured expiration when cache
client `set()` and `touch()` calls. If the given expiration in seconds
is greater than 30 days, we add the expiration value to the current
instant of UTC timezone (Unix timestamp). In case expiration is less than
or equals to 30 days, we do not perform any recalculation and use the
existing expiration for cache client's `set()` and `touch()` calls.

In this way we can continue using the `memcached.cache.expiration` &
`memcached.cache.expiration-per-cache` configuration properties as
time-to-live value i.e. cache entry expiration. This change will not
introduce any breaking change (e.g. expiring cache on specific date),
being we did not allow expiration values of more than 30 days.

Resolves #152

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/sixhours-team/memcached-spring-boot/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sixhours-team/memcached-spring-boot/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=io.sixhours%3Amemcached-spring-boot)
[![Join the chat at gitter.im/six-hours/memcached-spring-boot](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/six-hours/memcached-spring-boot?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

# Memcached Spring Boot

Library that provides support for auto-configuration of Memcached cache in a Spring Boot application.

It provides implementation for the [Spring Cache Abstraction](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.2.3.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/integration.html#cache), backed by the [Xmemcached](https://github.com/killme2008/xmemcached).
Supports cache eviction per key, as well as clearing out of the entire cache region. Binaries are available from **Maven Central**.

## Usage

To plug-in Memcached cache in your application follow the steps below:

1. Include library as a Gradle or Maven compile dependency:
   * **Gradle**

      ```groovy
      implementation('io.sixhours:memcached-spring-boot-starter:2.4.4')
      ```
   * **Maven**

      ```xml
      <dependency>
          <groupId>io.sixhours</groupId>
          <artifactId>memcached-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
          <version>2.4.4</version>
      </dependency>
      ```
  
    As the default implementation is backed by [Xmemcached](https://github.com/killme2008/xmemcached) if there is a requirement to use [Spymemcached](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-elasticache-cluster-client-memcached-for-java) (i.e. its forked AWS version) following configuation should be applied:
  
   * **Gradle**

        ```groovy
        implementation('io.sixhours:memcached-spring-boot-starter:2.4.4') {
          exclude group: 'com.googlecode.xmemcached', module: 'xmemcached'
        }
        implementation('com.amazonaws:elasticache-java-cluster-client:1.1.2')
        ```
   * **Maven**

        ```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.sixhours</groupId>
            <artifactId>memcached-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
            <version>2.4.4</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>com.googlecode.xmemcached</groupId>
                    <artifactId>xmemcached</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.amazonaws</groupId>
            <artifactId>elasticache-java-cluster-client</artifactId>
            <version>1.1.2</version>
        </dependency>
        ```

  * Snapshot repository

    If you want to use `SNAPSHOT` versions, add the snapshot-repo `https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots` as shown in the [example](https://github.com/sixhours-team/spring-boot-memcached-demo-java/blob/master/build.gradle#L16).

2. Configure `Memcached` key-value store in your properties file (`application.yml`).

    **Example**

    To manually connect to one or more cache servers (nodes), specify comma-separated list of hostname:port with the `static` provider:

    ```yaml
     memcached.cache:
       servers: example1.com:11211,example2.com:11211
       provider: static
       # default expiration set to '1d' (1 day i.e. '86400' seconds) and custom ones for cache_name1 and cache_name2
       expiration: 1d
       expiration-per-cache:
         cache_name1: 1h
         cache_name2: 30h
       metrics-cache-names: cache_name1, cache_name2
     ```

    To connect to a cluster with AWS [Auto Discovery](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/UserGuide/AutoDiscovery.html), specify
    cluster configuration endpoint in `memcached.cache.servers` property with the `aws` provider:

    ```yaml
    memcached.cache:
        servers: mycluster.example.com:11211
        provider: aws
        expiration: 86400 # default expiration set to '86400' seconds i.e. 1 day
    ```

    To connect to a cluster within Google App Engine memcached service, it is sufficient to specify
    the configuration property for provider with value `appengine`:

    ```yaml
    memcached.cache:
        provider: appengine
        expiration: 86400 # default expiration set to '86400' seconds i.e. 1 day
    ```

3. Enable caching support by adding `@EnableCaching` annotation to one of your `@Configuration` classes.

    ```java
    import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
    import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
    import org.springframework.cache.annotation.EnableCaching;

    @SpringBootApplication
    @EnableCaching
    public class Application {

    	public static void main(String[] args) {
    		SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args);
    	}
    }
    ```

    Now you can add caching to an operation of your service:

    ```java
    import org.springframework.cache.annotation.Cacheable;
    import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

    @Component
    public class BookService {

        @Cacheable("books")
        public Book findByTitle(String title) {
            // ...
        }

    }
    ```

For further details on using the Memcached cache in a Spring Boot application please look at the [demo](https://github.com/sixhours-team/spring-boot-memcached-demo-java) project.

## Properties

Properties can be set in your `application.yml` file or as a command line properties. Below is the
full list of supported properties:

```yaml
# MEMCACHED CACHE
memcached.cache.servers: # Comma-separated list of hostname:port for memcached servers (default "localhost:11211")
memcached.cache.provider: # Memcached server provider (use one of following: "static", "aws" or "appengine"). Default provider is "static". Use "aws" for AWS node auto discovery, or "appengine" if running on Google Cloud Platform.
memcached.cache.expiration: # Default cache expiration (defaults to "0", meaning that cache will never expire). If duration unit is not specified, seconds will be used by default.
memcached.cache.expiration-per-cache.cacheName: # Set expiration for cache with given name. Overrides `memcached.cache.expiration` for the given cache. To set expiration value for cache named "cacheName" {cache_name}:{number} e.g. "authors: 3600" or "authors: 1h". If duration unit is not specified, seconds will be used by default.
memcached.cache.prefix: # Cache key prefix (default "memcached:spring-boot")
memcached.cache.protocol: # Memcached client protocol. Supports "text" and "binary" protocols (default is "text" protocol)
memcached.cache.operation-timeout: # Memcached client operation timeout (default "2500 milliseconds"). If unit not specified, milliseconds will be used.
memcached.cache.hash-strategy: # Memcached client hash strategy for distribution of data between servers. Supports "standard" (array based : "hash(key) mod server_count"), "libmemcached" (consistent hash), "ketama" (consistent hash), "php" (make easier to share data with PHP based clients), "election", "roundrobin", "random". Default is "standard".
memcached.cache.servers-refresh-interval: # Interval in milliseconds that refreshes the list of cache node hostnames and IP addresses for AWS ElastiCache. The default is 60000 milliseconds.
memcached.cache.metrics-cache-names: # Comma-separated list of cache names for which metrics will be collected.
memcached.cache.disabled-cache-names: # Comma-separated list of cache names for which caching will be disabled. The main purpose of this property is to disable caching for debugging purposes.    
```

All of the values have sensible defaults and are bound to [MemcachedCacheProperties](https://github.com/sixhours-team/memcached-spring-boot/blob/master/memcached-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/io/sixhours/memcached/cache/MemcachedCacheProperties.java) class.

Duration properties such as `expiration` and `expiration-per-cache` by default are using unit of seconds if no unit is specified. For `operation-timeout` property unit of milliseconds is the default one.

E.g. to specify an `expiration` of 30 seconds, `30`, `PT30S` (ISO-8601 format) and `30s` are all equivalent. An `operation-timeout` of 500ms can be specified in any of the following form: `500`, `PT0.5S` and `500ms`.

Supported units are:

* `ns` for nanoseconds

* `us` for microseconds

* `ms` for milliseconds

* `s` for seconds

* `m` for minutes

* `h` for hours

* `d` for days

**Notice:**
>If different applications are sharing the same Memcached server, make sure to specify unique cache `prefix` for each application
in order to avoid cache conflicts.

## Build

In order to build the project you will have to have [Java 1.8+](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-docker) installed.
To build the project invoke the following command:

    ./gradlew clean build

To install the modules in the local Maven repository:

    ./gradlew clean build publishToMavenLocal

## License

Memcached Spring Boot is an Open Source software released under the [Apache 2.0 license](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).
